
                            "BOOTPROG" BOOT SECTOR

                                  DESCRIPTION

  What is the "BOOTPROG" boot sector? It's a  boot  sector  for  FAT12  floppy
diskettes both 3.5 and 5.25 inch. This  boot  sector  can  load  and  run  any
standard MSDOS COM or EXE program placed to the root directory of the disk.

                           WHAT IT MAY BE USED FOR?

  Well, it may be used for loading a custom OS kernel (or kerenel loader).  It
also may be used for simple running of  PMode  programs  that  need  Privilege
Level 0, but user has WindowsNT with NTFS on his computer. He has no other way
of doing that (NT doesn't allow to run such  programs,  there  is  no  anyhing
similar to the "command prompt only" boot option in Win9x and harddisk is  not
accessible).
  If you're interested in how bootstrap, BIOS Int 13h and FAT12 work, you  may
learn from the boot sector sourcecode. :)

                           WHAT IT CAN'T BE USED FOR

  Since the boot sector loads COM and EXE programs, it also can load  and  run
any existing MSDOS program such as Norton Commander, for example. But I  think
you understand that this boot sector doesn't provide  any  DOS  service...  So
don't play a fool and don't try to perform an Int 21h  instruction  until  you
load MSDOS. Use BIOS service instead. BIOS provides keyboard and screen I/O as
well as DOS.
  It can't be used for hard disks because it has support for  FAT12  only  and
there is not much space to fitting code that works  with  HDD  partitions  and
different FAT types (Windows9x FAT32, for example).

                               HOW DOES IT WORK?

  Yeah, it really works... Nothing unusual... It just looks for a program file
name at the  root  directory  and  loads  corresponding  file  with  following
execution. If the boot sector fails to read any other sector, it prints a very
short message ("RE") to the screen and hangs the computer. If the boot  sector
fails to find needed program in the root directory, it also hangs with another
message ("NF").
  "RE" stands for "Read Error"
  "NF" stands for "file Not Found"
  COM and EXE programs are executed standard way just like in  MSDOS.  Program
stack is also setup depending on file type ("MZ" signature inside the  program
file stands for EXE file).
  Program file is loaded to the 60h segment by default. See  source  code  for
details about computer memory layout.
  NOTE: you may not format your diskette for future  storing  of  files  after
installing the new boot sector. An original boot sector of the diskette  stays
good for that, sice no serious information is changed.

            HOW TO MAKE MY DISK BOOTABLE WITH THIS NEW BOOT SECTOR?

  Nothing special. Just get any already formatted diskette. You may format  it
either in MSDOS or Windows 9x or Windows NT. Under WinNT select FAT12 type for
formatting.
  You may use diskettes of any capacity and any sizes. The boot  sector  works
the same on 3.5 and 5.25 inch disks and it doesn't care about disk  space.  It
maybe a 720KB or 360KB disk as well as 1.44MB or 1.2MB.
  Btw, you don't need to kill all the files on the  diskette.  You  may  don't
delete them at all, if there is enough space for a program that will be loaded
by the boot sector.
  I remember how MSDOS boot sector works. :) It can't load  system  files,  if
they are not the very first files on the disk. What the hell  MS  did  such  a
bullshit, huh ??? My boot sector loads a program normally  regardless  of  the
place where it starts on the disk and regardless of the chaos on the  disk  (I
mean files on the disk may be fragmented. If you don't know what  this  means,
read some manual where described what DOS/Windows9x DEFRAG.EXE program is).

  OKay, we have got a formatted FAT12  diskette.  What's  next?  Follow  these
commands:
  1. Put the diskette to a floppy drive ("A:" or "B:"). Let's say to "A:".
  2. Run the BOOTABLE.EXE utility as follows:
       BOOTABLE BOOT12.BIN A:
     This means read new boot sector from  the  BOOT12.BIN  file  and  put  it
     directly to the diskette in the drive "A:".
  3. Copy any existing COM/EXE program that doesn't use  DOS  service  to  the
     diskette and rename it to the STARTUP.BIN file.
  4. Reset the computer.
  5. Enter the BIOS setup by pressing the DEL key.
  6. Find the Advanced Setup section and choose bootstrap  order  that  starts
     with the "A:" disk
  7. Exit BIOS setup and the computer will reboot.
  8. Sit and wait for your program.
  9. If everything is OK, you see how your program works, cry  "I've  got  it!
     Yes! Yes! Yes!" very loudly so that every neighbour can hear you. :))
 10. If you see either "RE" or "NF" message on the screen, your disk is faulty
     or you have made a mistake somewhere - file named as STARTUP.BIN  doesn't
     exest.
     IMPORTANT NOTE: Be sure that your program is indeed named as  STARTUP.BIN
     but not as STARTU~1.BIN which may happen under Windows. Check this by the
     "dir" command wich shows 8.3 short DOS names as well as LFNs of Windows.

  In order to load your MSDOS or Windows,  simply  choose  a  bootstrap  order
starting with the "C:" disk, where your OS lives. If it  lives  on  any  other
disk, choose appropriate order of bootstrap in the BIOS setup.

                     OTHER UTILS AVAILABLE IN THE PACKAGE

  GETBOOTF.EXE is a program that reads a boot sector  from  an  "A:"  or  "B:"
drive and stores it to a file.
  SETBOOTF.EXE is a program that loads a boot sector from  a  given  file  and
writes it to an "A:" or "B:" disk. This util replaces disk boot sector  fully.
IMPORTANT NOTE: BOOTABLE.EXE program updates only  boot  sector  code,  volume
lable and system OEM name, but keeps hardware dependant information (number of
tracks, size of cluster, etc.) unchanged.
  REN_PROG.EXE is a program that provides changing of a  program  filename  to
be load by the boot sector. This program works with boot  sector  saved  as  a
file and don't access your floppy disk at all. You should use this util before
actual writing of the boot sector to the diskette.
  NOTE: you may run these programs w/o any switches and  parameters  specified
in order to see how to launch them right way.

          WHAT IS INSIDE THIS PACKAGE EXCEPT OF THE LISTED PROGRAMS?

  I've put here two simple programs written in assembler. These  programs  may
be loaded and run by the boot sector. This is just something like an  example.
Btw, if you find any compiler which can make COM/EXE programs that don't  deal
with DOS service functions, you may use it for making programs to be loaded by
the boot sector.
  The programs are: STARTUPC.COM  and  STARTUPE.EXE.  They  print  a  standard
"Hello World!" message and hang the computer.

                                  EXTRA GIFT

  I just finished a version  of  the  boot  sector  for  MSDOS  FAT16  primary
partitions. I tested the boot sector and it worked with  my  HDD  as  well  as
FAT12 version with floppy diskettes.
  I included some extra utils for setting the boot sector to a HDD and reading
it from a HDD. The utils are:
  GETBOOTH.EXE reads a boot sector from a HDD and saves to a specified file
  SETBOOTH.EXE writes a boot sector to a HDD from a file
  BOOTHDD.EXE  makes your HDD bootable with my cool boot sector
NOTE 1: BOOTHDD.EXE  doesn't  change  HDD  geometry  in  a  boot  sector,  but
        SETBOOTH.EXE updates a boot sector ENTIRELY.
NOTE 2: Don't try to install the boot sector to  HDD  disks  in  DOS  extended
        partition. I.e. if your HDD is split into C:, D:  and  E:  disks,  you
        should not install the boot sector to D: and  E:  disks  because  only
        disk C: is bootable. Hence, you should install it to disk C:.

                                  CONCLUSION

  I hope I give you everything you need and provide enough  information  about
all this stuff. Btw, all the sources are included to this package, so you  can
know a lot more from them then from this manual.

                              CONTACT INFORMATION

E-Mail:   alexfru@chat.ru
Homepage: http://alexfru.chat.ru
Mirror:   http://members.xoom.com/alexfru

                                                             Alexei A. Frounze
                                                               2nd March, 2000
